

What Is Integration Testing?
Integration testing is known as the second level of the software testing process, following unit testing. 
Integration testing involves checking individual components or units of a software project to expose defects and problems 
to verify that they work together as designed.


As a rule, the usual software project consists of numerous software modules, many of them built by different programmers. 
Integration testing shows the team how well these disparate elements work together. 
After all, each unit may function perfectly on its own,
but the pressing question is, “But can they be brought together and work smoothly?”

So, integration testing is the way we find out if the various parts of a software application can play well with others!


Why Perform Integration Testing?

Other than the fundamental truth that developers must test all software applications before releasing them to the public,
there are some specific reasons why developers should perform integration testing.

A.Incompatibility between software modules can cause errors
B.Developers must confirm that every software module can interact with the database
C.Requirements change, thanks to client input. However, maybe those new requirements haven't been thoroughly tested yet and should be
D.Every software developer has their understanding and programming logic. Integration testing ensures that these various units function smoothly
E.There may be potential problems with hardware compatibility
F.Modules often interact with third-party APIs or tools, so we need integration testing to verify that the data these tools accept is correct


Advantages of Integration Testing
1.Integration testing ensures that every integrated module functions correctly
2.Integration testing uncovers interface errors
3.Testers can initiate integration testing once a module is completed and doesn’t require waiting for another module to be done and ready for testing
4.Testers can detect bugs, defects, and security issues
5.Integration testing provides testers with a comprehensive analysis of the whole system, dramatically reducing the likelihood of severe connectivity issues



Challenges of Integration Testing
Unfortunately, integration testing has some difficulties to overcome as well.

A.If testing involves dealing with two different systems created by two different vendors, 
    there will be questions about how these components will affect and interact with each other
B.Integrating new and legacy systems demands many testing efforts and potential changes
C.Integration testing becomes complex due to the variety of components involved (e.g., platforms, environments, databases)
D.Integration testing requires testing not only the integration links but the environment itself, adding another layer of complexity to the process


Guidelines for Integration Testing
If you are attempting integration testing, keep these guidelines in mind:

1.First, don’t initiate integration testing until each module has undergone functional testing first
2.Module testing should follow an accepted sequence not to overlook any integration scenarios
3.Agree on a test case strategy to prepare and execute test cases in conjunction with the test data
4.Study the application’s architecture and structure, identifying the most important modules to be tested first. Also, identify every possible scenario
5.Design test cases that will create detailed interface verification
6.Input data is vital to conducting reliable integration testing, so choose test case execution input data wisely
7.Generate reports on any bugs found. Send bug reports to the developers, have them fix the errors, then conduct testing again










