
V model Software Testing:

Verification in Software Testing is a process of checking documents, design, code, and program in order to check if the software has been built according to the requirements or not. The main goal of verification process is to ensure quality of software application, design, architecture etc. The verification process involves activities like reviews, walk-throughs and inspection.

Validation in Software Engineering is a dynamic mechanism of testing and validating if the software product actually meets the exact needs of the customer or not. The process helps to ensure that the software fulfills the desired use in an appropriate environment. The validation process involves activities like unit testing, integration testing, system testing and user acceptance testing.

V Model is a highly disciplined SDLC model in which there is a testing phase parallel to each development phase. 
The V model is an extension of the waterfall model in which testing is done on each stage parallel with development in a sequential way. It is known as the Validation or Verification Model.

SDLC: SDLC is Software Development Life Cycle. 
	It is the sequence of activities carried out by Developers to design and develop high-quality software.

STLC: STLC is Software Testing Life Cycle. 
	It consists of a series of activities carried out by Testers methodologically to test your software product.

Problem with the Waterfall Model

Solution: The V Model

	The left side of the model is Software Development Life Cycle - SDLC
	The right side of the model is Software Test Life Cycle - STLC
	The entire figure looks like a V, hence the name V - model
	
STLC Phases

There are following six major phases in every Software Testing Life Cycle Model (STLC Model):

	1.Requirement Analysis
	2.Test Planning
	3.Test case development
	4.Test Environment setup
	5.Test Execution
	6.Test Cycle closure


What is Entry and Exit Criteria in STLC?

Entry Criteria: 
		Entry Criteria gives the prerequisite items that must be completed before testing can begin.
Exit Criteria: 
		Exit Criteria defines the items that must be completed before testing can be concluded


1.Requirement Analysis
		
	Activities in Requirement Phase Testing
		1.Identify types of tests to be performed. 
		2.Gather details about testing priorities and focus.
		3.Prepare Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM).
		4.Identify test environment details where testing is supposed to be carried out. 
		5.Automation feasibility analysis (if required).

	Deliverables of Requirement Phase Testing

		1.RTM (equirements Traceability Matrix)
			is a document that links requirements throughout the validation process. 
			The purpose of the Requirements Traceability Matrix is to ensure that all requirements defined for 
				a system are tested in the test protocols
		
		2.Automation feasibility report. (if applicable)

	
2.Test Planning
		
	Test Planning Activities
		1.Preparation of test plan/strategy document for various types of testing
		2.Test tool selection
		3.Test effort estimation
		4.Resource planning and determining roles and responsibilities.
		5.Training requirement
	
	Deliverables of Test Planning
		1.Test plan /strategy document.
		2.Effort estimation document.
	
3.Test case development

	Test Case Development Activities
		1.Create test cases, automation scripts (if applicable)
		2.Review and baseline test cases and scripts
		3.Create test data (If Test Environment is available)
	
	Deliverables of Test Case Development
		1.Test cases/scripts
		2.Test data	

4.Test Environment setup
	Test Environment Setup Activities
		1.Understand the required architecture, environment set-up and prepare hardware 
		   and software requirement list for the Test Environment.
		2.Setup test Environment and test data
		3.Perform smoke test on the build

	Deliverables of Test Environment Setup
		1.Environment ready with test data set up
		2.Smoke Test Results.

5.Test Execution
	Test Execution Activities
		1.Execute tests as per plan
		2.Document test results, and log defects for failed cases
		3.Map defects to test cases in RTM
		4.Retest the Defect fixes
		5.Track the defects to closure

	Deliverables of Test Execution
		1.Completed RTM with the execution status
		2.Test cases updated with results
		3.Defect reports


6.Test Cycle closure
	Test Cycle Closure Activities
		1.Evaluate cycle completion criteria based on Time, Test coverage, Cost,Software, Critical Business Objectives, Quality
		2.Prepare test metrics based on the above parameters.
		3.Document the learning out of the project
		4.Prepare Test closure report
		5.Qualitative and quantitative reporting of quality of the work product to the customer.
		6.Test result analysis to find out the defect distribution by type and severity.

	Deliverables of Test Cycle Closure
		1.Test Closure report
		2.Test metrics
        

KEY DIFFERENCE

Verification process includes checking of documents, design, code and program whereas Validation process includes testing and validation of the actual product.
Verification does not involve code execution while Validation involves code execution.
Verification uses methods like reviews, walkthroughs, inspections and desk-checking whereas Validation uses methods like black box testing, white box testing and non-functional testing.
Verification checks whether the software confirms a specification whereas Validation checks whether the software meets the requirements and expectations.
Verification finds the bugs early in the development cycle whereas Validation finds the bugs that verification can not catch.
Comparing validation and verification in software testing, Verification process targets on software architecture, design, database, etc. while Validation process targets the actual software product.
Verification is done by the QA team while Validation is done by the involvement of testing team with QA team.
Comparing Verification vs Validation testing, Verification process comes before validation whereas Validation process comes after verification.